Now I'll go back to printing out the variable and I want to show another and for now, the last very important
value or data structure in Javascript, an object and I'll have a complete module on objects in this
course but I want to get started with it right now since we're talking about variables in general and
which values you can assign to variables,
an object is such a value.
One of the quickest ways to create an object in Javascript is to use curly braces and then you may expand
this too over multiple lines,
this will work
and here, you can create fields and methods.
Now fields are basically variables inside an object if you want to put it like this,
also referred to as properties and methods are functions inside variables and no worries, I'll come back
to both things soon.
So I could specify name here and now I'm not assigning a value with an equal sign but inside of an object
indicated by the curly braces here, I assign it by typing colon and then the value, for example Max,
which is a string here of course.
Now what do you think
I'll see if I print var1 to the console?
Well I see object object and then the actual object.
So I see the object I just created
but the cool thing about objects is I can also access this name directly by typing dot and then name,
so the name of this field which happens to be name here. If I now click run, we see Max,
so this string. So now I'm kind of accessing a variable, even though you would call it property or field inside
my object here
and objects are very important data structures since you may have multiple fields or nested fields and
functions inside them, so you can kind of group different functionalities
and you will work with objects quite a lot in your code and we will see objects quite a lot throughout
this course as well.
So what's the type of this object? If I run
typeof
and now I hit run, it's object, so that probably wasn't too surprising
but as I just explained, this is an object and it's of type object of course
therefore.